This is a batch rendering utility originally written for use in one of the
production classes at Clemson University, for the Digital Production Arts
program down in North Charleston, South Carolina.

The project is written in the Perl programming language.

This is the second version of the software, and has some noticeable
improvements. The code as a whole has been cleaned up, removing a few
previous bugs, such as the one where I needed a sequential set of machines
instead of an arbitrary amount. Support for a JSON configuration file has
also been added to the code. Most of the current problems come from a larger
technical hurdle that did not exist at the University, which is the lack of
a shared filesystem. It may be useful to add a flag to assume a shared
filesystem, instead of just removing it entirely.

This has expanded to a couple of scripts, notably the following:
    1) batch_render.2.pl
    2) batch_killall.tcl

There is a configuration file to be placed as
/home/batch_renderer/batch_render.json. This is local to each machine, and
will contain things such as the local render directory, and the paths for
the command line renderers.

Currently, there are a few unfinished portions. They are as follows, and
are being worked on and will be updated as I finish them:
    1) The render directories need to be created and instantiated
       on the set of machines
    2) A temporary file needs to, instead of being created, be transferred
       over using an SCP command.
    3) Confirm that the Blender portion works correctly. This is especially
       useful for me personally, as Blender is something that I can use
       commercially without a license.
    4) Confirmed testing of final renders.
    5) Setting up of dependent files, such as images, etc. Might set up a
       scene directory structure to make this easier.

A secondary script will take a configuration file and kill all of the render
processes on the listed machines. It assumes the local config file in the
/home/batch_renderer/batch_render.json file as well. This is written in
expect/Tcl.

Dependencies:
  System:
    Perl
    tcl
    tcllib
    expect

  CPAN:
    IO::Pty
    JSON::XS
    Net::OpenSSH
    Term::ReadKey
